=head2 Demographics


=head3 Gender

=begin R

library(Hmisc)
describe(factor(perl.survey$gender))

=end R

Male (4294, 96%), Female (139, 3%), Other (28, 1%) 

=head3 Age group

=begin R

perl.survey$age_group <- ordered(perl.survey$age_group)
describe(perl.survey$age_group)

=end R

           | <20 | 20-24 |  25-29  |  (20-29)  |  30-39 |  40-49 |  50+ |
Frequency  | 94  | 466   |  975    |   1441    |  1830  |  817   |  306 |
Percent    | 2   | 10    |  22     |   32      |  41    |  18    |  7   |



=head3 Country of birth and residence.


Country is more fun.  The old sort| uniq trick works best here.  With a little under 160 countries mentioned.  It's in the data dir.


=head3 Highest qualification

=begin R



describe(ordered(perl.survey$highest_qual))

=end R

School (702, 16%), Technical College (505, 12%), Bachelors (1723, 40%), Masters (1370, 32%)

=head4 did they learn Perl?

             |None | Almost none | A little | Quite a bit |  A lot |
Frequency    |3584 | 295         | 309      | 54          |  38    |
Percent      | 84   7   7  1  1


=head3 Post-school training

=begin R

describe(sapply(perl.survey[8:17],ordered))

=end R

Computing     | 45%
Engineering   | 16%
Science       | 14%
Mathematics   | 12%
Other         |  7%
Languages     |  4%
Arts          |  3%
Social Science|  3%
Creative Arts |  2%
Education     |  1%


=head3 Formally taught Perl



=head2 Estimating the size of the Perl community.

=begin R

perl.survey <- read.csv("../data/all_data.csv");
perl.survey$num_cpan_modules <- ordered(perl.survey$num_cpan_modules)
summary(perl.survey$num_cpan_modules)
sum(summary(perl.survey$num_cpan_modules)[2:4]) # non-cpan contributors
sum(summary(perl.survey$num_cpan_modules)[1]) # cpan contributors

=end R

803 CPAN contributors

2872 Non-CPAN contributors.

So we've got 9.8% of the CPAN contributors.  So to get an order of magnitude estimate of the size of the Perl community at large, we can assume that we've got somewhere between 1 in 10 and 1 in 100 of regular Perl users.  So the size of the Perl community is somewhere between: 36,950 and 295,500 individuals.


=head3 Involvement with perlmongers

=begin R

perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings  <- ordered(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings)
summary(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings)

# Total % of perl mongers attendees
sum(summary(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings)[2:6])/sum(summary(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings)[1:6])*100 


# % of perl mongers attendees who contribute to CPAN

sum(summary(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings[perl.survey$num_cpan_modules > 1])[1])/sum(summary(perl.survey$attend_local_perl_mongers_group_meetings[perl.survey$num_cpan_modules > 1])[1:6])*100

=end R

30% of respondents attend PerlMongers meetings. 45%% of CPAN contributors attend PM meetings.

=head3 Does this change by mailing list?


=begin R

perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to  <- ordered(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to)
summary(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to)

# Total % of perl mongers list subscribers
sum(summary(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to)[2:4])/sum(summary(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to)[1:4])*100 


# % of perl mongers list subscribers who contribute to CPAN

sum(summary(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to[perl.survey$num_cpan_modules > 1])[1])/sum(summary(perl.survey$perl_mongers_mailing_lists_subscribe_to[perl.survey$num_cpan_modules > 1])[1:4])*100

=end R


This is a rather odd counter-intuitive result:  42% of non-CPAN contributers subscribe to at least 1 PM mailing list.  32% of CPAN contributors do.


